Daddy.
Sherlock won't play with me.
Get up. you idiot.
Play with her.
Bea? Bea!
Where is she?
Cordelia? Beatrice!
- Beatrice!
-  Help your mother!
Find her!
I don't know why
you're getting so agitated.
I just said you have
a rather large cranium.
Mr Holmes.
You'll have to be quicker
than that. Barney.
Saw that one coming a mile off.
You need to hide your intent more. Barney.
Break it up. Break it up!
Is that you. brother dear?
'Tis. brother dear.
Put him down. Barney. Easy.
Nice of you to pop by.
Holiday is over. Follow me. Sherlock.
Really. I meant no offence. Barney.
Captain. Bob. Mr Dickie.
Sherlock. your brother
couldn't get us out. could he?
Mycroft.
you heard the question.
I have one card to play. Sherlock.
It's either you or him.
Two years will fly by. Mr Dickie.
What exactly landed you
in prison this time?
Reading.
Reading doesn't get you arrested.
So. what did?
Oliver Twist.
I rather took a shine
to the Artful Dodger.
I'm so sorry. sir.
A pickpocket by trade.
I thought to myself.
"I wonder if I could do that?"
Allow me. sir.
This fell out of your pocket.
The problem is.
extracting a gentlemen's wallet
isn't as challenging as returning it.
- Thief!
- No. no.
Why would you be returning
the wallet with its contents intact?
It's the extraction
that is the attraction.
That explains the first three months
but you were sent down for six.
I am considering
transportation to Australia.
I'm afraid that won't be possible.
Your Honour.
Excuse me?
1857. The Penal Servitude Act.
According to precedent.
a court is either bound
by the decisions of the court above it
or the decisions of a court
of equivalent standing
thus. in this case
making it conspicuously impossible
to send a man to Australia--
- Two months for contempt.
- Oh!
As you could be in breach of the Act.
- Three months.
- And in an ironic turn of fate.
could subsequently find yourself
stood in this very dock.
Six months!
I find it astonishing that the judge
didn't see your point of view.
My point exactly.
You could have got me out sooner.
♪ Hey. son
I'm looking forwards ♪
♪ You're aiming backwards
Of this I'm sure ♪
♪ Have you had enough?
Are you feeling rough? ♪
♪ Does your skull hurt?
Well. if it's war ♪
♪ I'm waiting ♪
♪ Right here now
I'm waiting ♪
♪ For someone or something ♪
♪ To take me
To take me over ♪
♪ Days ♪
♪ Days are forgotten ♪
♪ Now it's all over ♪
♪ You've simply forgotten
How to disappear ♪
Ah.
There it is. I knew there was a face
underneath that nest of crows.
So. how was the food?
The chef was often a little heavy
with the weevils in the gruel
but the claret was excellent.
You should try it sometime.
Guess I'm quite happy where I am.
Respectable job in the civil service.
Respectable or conventional?
- Secure.
- Predictable?
- Influential.
- Tedious.
Reliable. consistent.
stable and responsible.
You should try it sometime.
And on that note. prepare yourself.
I come bearing a gift.
Apprehensive.
I've secured you a place at Oxford.
Arguably the greatest
university in the world.
- You have. brother dear?
- I have. brother dear.
Well. I'm surprised. Grateful.
Aw.
I've always been rather fascinated
by a life dedicated
to the pursuit of learning.
And I'll be there on government business.
So. I'll be able to keep an eye on you.
Make sure your hair is brushed.
your teeth are clean. shoes are shiny.
- When do we go?
- Imminently.
I'm touched. Moved.
Get dressed.
We're going to pay our respects to Mummy.
Mr Holmes. We've moved your mother
to a bigger room.
Sherlock.
Hello. Mother. Please don't stand.
My darling.
Were the three months hard. my darling?
It was quite an education. really.
Oof. Does that hurt?
Oh. Only when I laugh.
Father wrote to me.
He's in Vienna. Sounds well.
They're listening to me.
A whirring.
All the time.
They can hear everything I say.
And there's a man with a bird claw.
And he's coming back for me.
I'm sorry I haven't been able
to visit much recently. Mother.
It's not your fault.
But I'm in Oxford now. I'll be close by.
And I can visit much more often.
You have to promise me something.
Anything.
You must stay out of trouble.
Understood. I will. No more trouble.
I won't lose you too.
University College was founded in 1249.
making it the oldest college in Oxford.
I did try to get you into there.
I tried Balliol College too. in 1263.
And Merton. 1264.
Sadly. none of the founding colleges
would take you. So--
I suppose I'll have to put up with
the clumsy modernity of 1458 then?
Now. I got your foot in the door.
Time to start taking advantage
of your advantage.
There's something you're not telling me.
isn't there?
You'll thank me for it. One day.
Ah. Smudger.
Mr Holmes.
Sherlock Holmes?
That'll be me. sir.
This is yours. sir.
Mmm. come on.
- Mycroft.
- Yes?
Why is the head porter
proffering an apron?
You're a smart boy. Work it out.
I'm to be a porter. not a student?
Oh. no. You've got to work
your way up to be a porter.
- You're a scout.
- I'm a scout?
- And a scout does?
- Whatever I tell him to do.
I'm here to serve and not to learn?
Oh. no. no. You'll learn. all right.
Come along. son. The shitters
aren't gonna clean themselves. are they?
Mycroft?
Bon appétit. hmm?
Mycroft.
The shitters. sir?
Hyah!
Mr Chen and I appreciate
your government sending you
to escort us from London to Oxford.
but it wasn't necessary.
Princess. I can assure you
the honour is all mine.
My government values
our relationship with China very highly.
We wouldn't want anything to go wrong.
Is that why you've arranged
an armed escort?
Hyah!
Hyah! Hyah!
Whoa! Whoa!
Are we all having a lovely day?
I said. "Are we all having a lovely day?"
Yes. yes.
Good.
I won't hold you up for long.
I'm just here for the scrolls.
Thank you. darling.
What about her?
Our job is to take the scrolls.
She's a princess. Think of the ransom.
- You're coming with us. Princess.
- No!
Let's go.
Princess?
More tea. scout!
Right away. Professor.
What are you doing with those?
Tidying. sir.
I do apologise. Professor Thompson.
No good ever comes poking your nose
into business that does not concern you.
I apologise. sir.
- Did you write this?
- Yes. I did.
Recently published.
Rather well received. if I may say so.
- May I?
- Yes. of course.
A scout interested in mathematics?
My father always instilled in me the love
for reading. Taught me to be curious.
Ah. curiosity.
The greatest virtue.
But not if you're a cat.
Would you mind if I borrowed this?
Um. not at all. um…
Sherlock Holmes. sir.
Sherlock? It's an unusual name.
This is for the Chinese princess.
Just arrived.
Old Court. room 2B.
At your service. Mr Smudger.
Good lad.
Scout.
Your luggage. ma'am.
Please. place it on the desk.
You want me to clear it?
I can do it myself.
How does a college porter end up speaking
Mandarin from the Gansu province?
I worked in Whitechapel for a shoemaker.
He was from Dunhuang.
Your pronunciation…
…is terrible.
But just about intelligible.
The shoemaker had a dependency.
- Do you mean he was a drunk?
- That was his poison of choice. yes.
Which explained your slurred delivery.
Your Highness.
Pray. silence for Sir Bucephalus Hodge.
While visiting my. uh.
not inconsiderable business interests
in this glorious empire of ours.
it struck me
that it was time to give back.
So. it is. uh. with great delight
that I announce this term
the opening of my new science building.
A brilliant addition
to this glittering university.
Now. scholars. On your feet.
I present to you my Hodge scholars.
Take a good look.
These students will be generals.
prime ministers.
leaders who will guide our world
into the 20th century.
Enjoy learning. Enjoy your youth. Welcome!
I came up in '23.
Itchy feet. though. Didn't stay long.
And may I say. sir.
no one has had a greater impact
on expanding the British Empire than you.
Everything to your satisfaction. sirs?
Yes. uh. thank you. Thank you.
Oh.
- You quite sure?
- Yes. fine. Thank you.
Nothing else I can get you?
I am. of course. at your service.
At your beck and call.
as you well know. sir.
I said I'm fine. thank you.
- You know this young man?
- Yes he does. sir. Very well. sir.
- How so?
- I'm his lowly brother. sir.
What? Brother? No.
Is this true. Mycroft?
Uh. it's not
a very interesting story. sir.
But is it true?
Yes. indeed. he is my brother.
- So how did he end up serving here?
- Redemption. sir.
From what?
Prison. Her Majesty's pleasure.
How could you say
this wasn't interesting. Mycroft?
Do carry on. young man.
Well. my magnanimous brother here
took pity on the black sheep
of the family.
for which I am eternally grateful.
More wine. your lordship?
So. tell me…
…you have the same parents?
Yes we do. sir.
Although. sadly. we only really get
to see each other at. uh. family funerals.
court hearings. the like.
- Sir. today…
- Oh. that's quite enough.
…is your special day.
Your scholars
are an inspiration to us all.
So. um. tell me. young man…
…what was your crime?
Larceny. Thieving. Theft. Petty theft.
Although those days
are well and truly behind me.
spiritually and permanently.
There we are. Reformed.
Was a taker. now a giver.
Reborn to serve. sir.
Thank you. I'm sure we can take care of
ourselves from now on. brother dearest.
Very well. sirs.
I'm so sorry. sir.
Oh. no need to apologise. Mycroft.
Your brother's
the most interesting thing about you.
One should assume here
that x is greater than y.
and define the powers of x and y
using a holomorphic branch of log.
defined on an open disk
of radius centred at x.
Y.
Why? Why. because that is how it works.
An open disk of radius centred at y.
not x. Professor Thompson. sir.
My apologies.
Y.
Who so generously thought to correct me?
Ah. Mr Holmes the scout.
I see you've read my book.
I did. Professor Thompson.
Which is more than I can say
for some of my students.
Saved by the bell.
Homework.
Find me all the solutions of this quintic.
You're having trouble
finding the solutions?
Don't worry about that.
You just have to get yourself
some new numbers.
These solutions. they're not real.
They're imaginary.
That means even if you can't see
the target. you can still shoot for it.
So you're a mathematician now.
A porter. a waiter.
a candlestick maker. and a kleptomaniac.
Was a taker. now a giver.
Does Hodge's pocket watch keep good time?
They say that it's the unconscious desire
of every thief to be caught.
That it's the fear of incarceration
that gives freedom its currency.
The fundamental fault of man is to think
the enemy is external. not internal.
Prison is in here. not out there.
Look at you with your Art of War.
James Moriarty.
Sherlock Holmes.
It's a long line.
And I'm not a great one for waiting.
Waiting for what?
We're going to a party.
We're not quite dressed for this.
Are you even invited?
I don't think
you need to worry about that.
You just follow my lead.
Good evening. ladies and gentlemen.
May I see your invitations. please?
Sirs. madams.
please stand tight to the wall
to keep the path clear
for the other students.
This is marvellous.
Uh. I won't be a moment.
Wonderful dress. madam.
Excuse me. Excuse me.
Leave this with me.
Sir. You have a dramatic split
in the back of your jacket.
Two Sazeracs.  There you go.
- Thank you.
- My pleasure.
Excuse me. sir. You cannot take that.
You're absolutely right. sir.
But I can borrow it. and I shall return it
to its cradle un moment.
Now. look to this day. for it is life.
- You're the scout.
- Indeed.
- How did you get in here?
- I invited him.
And who invited you?
No one. And yet. here I am.
If I wish to socialise with a cleaner.
I'd have a party
in the servants' quarters.
So if you wouldn't mind.
I'd ask you to leave.
He might be a cleaner.
but he's a very clever cleaner.
Oh. such fun. At last we have characters
at one of your parties. Peregrine.
I have an idea.
You outsmart the scout.
and he'll leave without further protest.
You take a good. long look at him.
and you tell us what you can glean.
- And then he'll do the same to you.
- And then I'll be the judge of who wins.
Very well.
Show me your hand.
Interesting signet ring.
I notice an absence of any type of ring.
And no callouses.
He's clearly not intimately acquainted
with anything approaching hard labour.
So not just a servant. a lazy one too.
Had you not considered
that he wears gloves? So what else?
Oh. that's it? Well.
you had a promising start.
but you'd no follow through.
What you made was an observation.
not a deduction.
No callouses. so how does
he find himself in this position?
Well. I'd say he got into
a spot of bother along the way.
He got kicked out of school.
so he brought shame upon his parents.
and then his father made him take this
position to teach him a lesson.
- Not quite.
- Brother.
A high achiever. Am I correct?
Spot on.
Oh. Wasn't so hard. was it?
My turn.
Your signet ring? The crest?
Your ancestor was the Count of Boulogne.
Fought at the Battle of Hastings.
He was 5'2" and he had a face like
a cow's udder. but he fought like a titan.
So. ugly. yes.
but magnificent nonetheless.
Now. as is consistent with custom.
a man knows he must wear his signet ring
facing inward to represent content.
not outward to represent form.
Inward for noble lion.
outward for tabby cat.
Tell me.
Which direction does your ring point?
Oh. Peregrine. that must hurt.
Not as much as this is going to hurt.
Your Ladyship.
- Until next time.
- I look forward to that.
Whiskey.
-  Yes. of course.
- Hey!
♪ A distant man can't sympathise
He can't uphold his distant laws ♪
♪ Due to form on that today ♪
♪ I got a feeling then I hear this call ♪
♪ I said. neat. neat. neat
She can't afford no cannon ♪
♪ Neat. neat. neat
She can't afford no gun at all ♪
She can't afford no cannon ♪
At least you can run
'cause you definitely can't fight.
Yes. well. I've always
been more of a thinker than a fighter.
Upstairs for thinking.
downstairs for dancing.
You might want to
re-strategize that philosophy.
The two aren't mutually exclusive.
Why do you think an emperor
employs a general?
The hand of mercy means nothing
without the hand of judgement.
Slap needs a tickle. tickle needs a slap.
There's an art to fighting.
There's an art to war.
These belonged to the father
of Princess Shou'an.
The Art of War.
Part of the original scrolls.
Fifth century BC.
"In order to know your enemy.
you must become your enemy."
My father had a copy of this.
Didn't do him much good. though.
I'd say it's worth a pound or two.
Let's steal it.
Or better still. you're the expert.
You steal it.
I don't think that's a very good idea.
Oh. that's a shame.
- You could do a lot with the money.
- Could do more with my freedom.
Tell me it wasn't you.
- What wasn't me. sir?
- The police are on their way.
Not quite sure I'm following.
The robbery last night.
The library. You had keys.
The scrolls have been stolen.
and you was the last one seen going in.
Oh. I hope for your sake
it wasn't you. my boy.
Excuse me. Mr Smudger.
Just for clarity's sake. we didn't take
those scrolls last night. did we?
No. we didn't.
Hodge thinks we did. He was just in here.
What did he say?
He took my scholarship.
Oh. dear.
Yeah. so without that. I can't stay here.
Lucky you.
Gets better.
Go on. I can hardly wait.
Well. you'll be going back to prison.
Lucky me!
I'm going to find my brother.
Get dressed. Meet me in the library.
Mycroft.
Stay out of trouble. One simple request.
Is there any point
protesting my innocence?
Sherlock Holmes.
What is that? You need my help. don't you?
- No.
-  Sherlock Holmes.
I am arresting you in suspicion of theft.
- Uh. you won't need those.
- Sir. stop. I am a constable.
Yes. the clue is in the uniform.
Constable Lestrade
of Oxford City Police Force.
And I am Mycroft Holmes
of Her Majesty's Foreign Office.
I'm in Oxford
to assist Sir Bucephalus Hodge
with the opening
of his new science building.
Surely this is more detective's work?
I thought I'd make initial enquiries.
Early worm catches the bird.
Could be in trouble here.
I'm trying to prevent you
professional embarrassment
of being reprimanded
by your chief officer.
who happens to be my bridge partner
and is. as you know.
a stickler for due process.
Yes. sir. Quite.
- Thank you. sir.
- Good man.
Sir. Come on.
I need you to get me into the library.
You got ten minutes.
Don't embarrass me again.
- You know what we're looking for?
- Not really. no.
I thank you for keeping me updated.
but I would like to see
the crime scene for myself.
A hole in the window.
Wonder what that's for?
You should be a detective.
Hard to escape my powers of observation.
What are these powers
of observation telling you now?
There has been. wait for it. a break-in.
Astounding.
How did you develop these skills
of penetrating deduction?
We've been gifted a couple of paw prints.
There's a hook there.
who's missing his guest.
Think I've clocked the guest.
Your ten minutes are up.
Mycroft. would you mind telling me
why your brother. the prime suspect.
is standing at the scene of the crime?
I think it only fair he has a chance
to defend himself. sir.
No. he doesn't. Not here. He has a chance
to defend himself in a court of law.
- Constables. remove him.
- Right away. sir.
Do you know each other?
Never seen him before. sir.
Leave him.
Did you do it?
Of course not.
What is his theory.
that I broke in through the window?
I believe so.
Why would I do that if I had a key?
Mycroft. what the bloody hell
is going on? This brother of yours.
- Yes sir.
- One minute he's a redeemed felon.
then he's servant.
then he's a felon again.
and now apparently he's a linguist.
Again.
it's not a very interesting story. sir.
The thief was here
at six minutes past 10:00.
How can you possibly know that?
Because when he climbed down
from the window. he knocked this off.
The clue is in the clock.
And you didn't notice this. Constable?
I can help you find your father's scrolls.
There's a very good reason why
you can help find them. You stole them.
This is not proper procedure.
Sir. I represent the law.
I will do the investigation.
And they're my father's scrolls.
Need I remind you. sir.
how much of your trade with China
relies on my father's goodwill.
We are running late
for your appointment with the dean. sir.
Indeed.
Uh. perhaps we should
give the princess a chance
to conduct this investigation
as she sees fit.
- I must protest.
- Oh. really? Must you?
Thank you. Constable.
we'll take it from here.
According to Lestrade. the thief
scaled down the side of the building
and into a boat.
Lestrade told me
there's a river in the woods
where the thief rowed
from Candlin College.
The thief rowed out from Candlin College.
then got out here with the scrolls.
- And then?
- Disappeared.
Disappeared?
We have no idea where they went. sir.
Footprints?
Only one set of tracks. only one thief.
Headed off this way.
Footprints end here.
Thief got into a carriage.
Aye. aye.
Looks like one of them wheels
was a little drunk.
And a drunk wheel
would need to sober up.
Oh. hello. A coaching inn?
Where one might get a wheel fixed.
I wanted to ask.
Were you trying to impress me?
Impress you?
At the Maths lecture.
Y.
- When you corrected Professor Thompson.
- Y.
The professor's calculations
were incorrect. That was all.
Disappointing.
Well. frankly. I don't know
what you see in him.
I mean. yes. he is some way handsome
in a sort of obvious. clumsy kind of way.
but if you were ever looking
for something a bit more niche.
a bit more bespoke.
more mysterious. well--
Where might the princess
find a man like that?
As stimulating as this is. chaps.
I need to return to my carriage.
- Why?
- The gala opening.
Hodge's new science building.
I promised him I would be there.
Thank you. For your help.
Your Royal Highness.
A welcomed oasis in the parched deserts
of this rural wasteland.
What can I do for you. gentlemen?
Two whiskeys. my good lady.
and whatever you'd like
for your fine self.
Thank you.
Aye now. I'm getting this.
Your money's no good here.
I'll get the drinks. you get the tip.
"And out of his pocket.
he pulled the sovereigns bright…"
"…and the landlady's eyes
opened wide with delight."
Excuse me. Our carriage
is in need of a bit of repair.
Is the wheelwright around.
and might we have a word with him?
He's down at the village.
but he'll be back shortly.
We can wait.
Are we playing the game
of getting another.
or are we playing follow the fiddler?
Well…  …I'll take care of
the former if you take care of the latter.
It is your round.
Hey. Sherlock!
He has the scrolls.
He's got the scrolls.
When are you going to stop
blocking people's fists with your nose?
- It wasn't his fists. It was his forehead.
- Yes.
When you're engaged in combat.
it actually helps to throw a punch
from time to time.
He pulled his punch.
What is this place?
Ah. you're here too.
Welcome to my over active imagination.
Why pull your punch?
- He can hear you?
- Yes.
- But he can't answer you?
- No.
Those are the rules I didn't make them.
- Now he's paused.
- Yes.
Waiting for something.
What's he waiting for?
He's waiting for me to come out.
Hey. Sherlock!
Ah. lovely tackle.
Why wait for you to come out?
Why don't you ask him?
You can put them canons down.
Now. I don't know if whether
I should split your swede
or smash your caps?
What do you reckon?
Hmm. Decisions. decisions.
- Why don't you ask my chum?
- Oh. I think the swede.
Ah. that's interesting.
Not exactly brimming with scrolls.
I smell a rat?
What if he pulled his punch
because he wanted to lure us away?
Well. then someone
doesn't want us in Oxford.
It's not even the same tube.
We've been gifted
a couple of paw prints.
How did you develop these skills
of penetrating deduction?
There are hand prints
on either side of the window.
So he couldn't have been
holding the scrolls.
What happens if he has them
strapped to his back?
No. that's too big a cork
for too small a bottle.
So he hands them to an accomplice?
Only one set of tracks. Only one thief.
So he leaves them on the inside ledge
and he reaches back for them?
Wouldn't put him down as a gymnast.
Here's another possibility:
what if they never left?
What if the scrolls
are still in the library?
- That's one hypothesis.
- You have a better one?
In the unlikely event that you are right…
- Why make it look like there was a theft…
- …if there was no theft?
That's the question.
You ever use one of these?
Indeed I have.
The devil do they think they're doing?
Get back here!
There is a special place in hell
for penny farthing thieves!
We're pedalling there as fast as we can.
Hold on. this doesn't make sense.
The lead is cracked. Stress fracture.
- It's not been pushed from the outside in…
- It's been pushed from the inside out.
And then back in again. to make it look
like it was pushed in from the outside.
Well. this wasn't a break in.
but it's been made to look
like it was a break in.
- Is that where my statue's going to go?
-  I believe so. sir.
Ah. I feel it needs to be… um…
- Bigger?
- Bigger. Mycroft. Yes. bigger.
Just higher than all those kings
and queens and saints and whatnot.
Hmm. Princess. so generous of you
to find time for my humble little shindig.
The pleasure is mine.
So the scrolls should be
in here somewhere.
There's a thousand places to hide them.
Yes. that does provide a challenge.
Well. maybe you were wrong.
- I was wrong?
- Yes.
About the scrolls being here.
that was all you.
Remind me. what was your theory?
You can't rush genius.
No. you take your time.
It's not you who's going back to prison.
Well. maybe if you were
a more accomplished pickpocket.
then you wouldn't be going there
in the first place. Would you?
We've been looking for a something.
When we should've been looking
for a someone. Walker.
- Who?
- Walker the porter.
The porter who tidies the room.
He suffers from chronic scrupulosity.
Every night he walks around
and makes sure everything in here
is in order. everything is straight.
Not just straight. as an arrow straight.
Cushion. He hasn't been here
since the crime.
So. something or someone is not straight.
John Donne.
He's been to the pub.
He's had a drink.
- A drink or two.
- He could have another.
He should go home…
But he doesn't know when to stop.
That's beginner's luck.
Our secret lies in confusing the enemy
so he cannot fathom our true intent.
What if it was a diversion?
The library is the busiest room
in college.
Even at night. porters check
on the place every 30 minutes.
The thief makes it seem
as though the scrolls were stolen
to ensure the library is sealed off
as a crime scene.
He then squirrels himself away in here
and waits for all to be quiet and clear.
He needs to be undisturbed. He needs time.
Time? Time for what?
This is the case that held the scrolls.
Our whiskey has made its mark.
Now. before the scrolls were stolen.
this case sat atop a cabinet.
The cabinet which is now missing.
Why was it taken and what was inside it?
Let's focus on the how
and that will give us the what
and the why.
Now. how does a cabinet disappear
when the police are at the only door?
Through the walls.
In its original incarnation 400 years ago.
before this was a library.
what was this room?
A medieval banqueting hall.
So there would've been five corridors.
- One for the Norman aristocracy.
- Two for the masses.
And two for the servants coming in
and out from the kitchen.
All bricked up and panelled over.
Rat-a-ta-tat.
Cat follows rat?
Cat follows rat.
Well. we've found our cabinet.
Now we know how it got here.
shall we address the what?
Door number one.
we have some kind of mechanical activator.
Door number two…
The mechanism. it's activating.
Door number three…
A timing device.
Door number four… Hazard a guess?
Oh. dear.
Well. now we know the what.
So. what's the why?
Nothing has such power to broaden
the mind as the ability to investigate.
-  To investigate is to wonder.
- Hodge's gala.
Do you know how to defuse one of these?
No. Do you?
Can we move it?
-  I wouldn't.
- Solution?
Well. we've only got 90 seconds
according to that clock.
This building
will be a cathedral to science.
The stone and mortar that surround us…
…a cathedral to science.
I must now make mention
of our brilliant mathematician.
Professor Charles Thompson
for his invaluable contribution.
Lords…
…Ladies and Gentlemen.
I invite you to charge your glasses.
Holmes. what the devil
are you doing in my chimney?
Sorry to bother you. sir.
Uh. a rather pressing issue.
- I hope it is for your sake. What is it?
- A bomb.
- What do you mean a bomb?
- A bomb is an incendiary device--
I know what a bloody bomb is. Holmes.
what does that got to do with interrupting
my speech and destroying my chimney?
Proximity. sir. It's likely to go off
in the next 30 seconds.
killing anyone within the blast radius.
which I would assume is likely
to be pretty much this whole room. sir.
I see. Well. that does seem
to be a sound reason.
For God's sake. would you stop
being so English? There's a bomb!
A bomb!
Whoever's behind this.
I'm going to string them up.
cut them down while they're still alive.
disembowel them
and burn their entrails before their eyes.
Entrails. Very good. sir.
So what exactly are we celebrating?
We haven't solved anything.
We don't know
who planted the bomb. Or why.
And that is not our concern.
That's not our concern?
We set out to find the scrolls.
We found them.
I'm not losing my scholarship
and you're not going to prison.
So I think that's worth
raising a glass to.
Why aren't you drinking?
Not thirsty.
Come in.
Oh. Another survivor?
Yes. but I can't pretend
I'm not shaken. Please sit.
Can I have one of those?
Yes. of course.
Please come in. Close the door.
Well. at least someone's thirsty.
I wanted to thank you. Sherlock.
for finding my father's scrolls.
Well. don't mind me.
I'm just an Ashkenazi side dish.
Besides. I have a previous arrangement.
Do you?
You're much more
than chopped liver my friend.
you must stay. you're the main course.
No. No. no. no. no.
So… Romeo. Juliet. Goodnight. goodnight.
Parting is such sweet sorrow
that I should say goodnight…
'cause I'm off to the pub.
Now. how should I reward you?
Oh. no. that's not necessary.
At least let me top you up.
Thank you.
Your companion. James Moriarty.
is quite brilliant.
But not as brilliant as you.
Here's to your extraordinary future.
You missed a bit.
Why don't you sit down over there
and I'll clean you up?
I'm not quite sure this is all. uh…
I insist.
Tick… tock.
Come play with me. Sherlock.
Play with her.
Sherlock. why don't you
play with your sister? Go on.
Get up you idiot.
Play with her.
Bea?
- Where is she?
-  Cordelia?
- Beatrice!
-  Beatrice!
Bea! Beatrice!
Oh. my God!
Your fault.
Open up!
Police! Open up!
That's him.
Get him on his feet. lads.
Sherlock Holmes.
I'm arresting you for the murder
of Professor Charles Thompson.
Take him away.
♪ I'll shine so hard
I'll stand up high ♪
♪ These foolish ways
I know my place ♪
♪ My time is now
My time is now ♪
♪ Although we're tongue-tied
And breathless ♪
♪ We won't let our worries
Dictate who we are ♪
♪ Throw out the old doubts
We won't let our worries ♪
♪ Dictate who we are ♪
♪ La-la-la
La-la-la-la-la-la ♪
♪ Don't forget who you are ♪
♪ Darling
Close your eyes and wish for more ♪
♪ Away in our dreams ♪
♪ Till we're ready for more ♪
♪ When we're tongue-tied and breathless ♪
♪ We won't let our worries
Dictate who we are ♪